This is the code book related to the project.
R version 4.0.3 (2020-10-10)
Package 'dplyr' required

# DATA SOURCE
## Getting data
* This dataset was used as part of study presented on the 21th ESANN 2013, Bruges, Belgium.  
You can find the data site on the link below:
[Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set] (https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)

* The folder contains subfolders and plain text files with the data generated by accelerometer and gyroscope  
embedded in Samsung Galaxy S II smartphone, also contains instructions on how interpret the data.

# TRANSFORMATION
## Organizing (Merging, changing names and make it presentable)
* The data comes in different files related to test and train datasets, which are organized in subfolders.
a. Merging data: 
    Test dataset contains 2947 observations divided in 3 (three) files 'subject_test.txt', 'X_test.txt'   
    and 'y_test.txt'.
    Train dataset contains 7352 observations divided in 3 (three) files 'subject_train.txt', 'X_train.txt'   
    and 'y_train.txt'.
    To merge data the process was binding them as columns, afterwards binding as rows to have full dataset.

## Filtering only mean and standard deviations from all measurements
a. From the file 'features.txt' only measurements related to mean and standard deviation were selected  
through their names using regular expression.

## Aggregating measurement by its mean
The final data set is the resulting of both data sets aggregated by its mean grouped by subject and activity.
There are 30 (thirty) subjects observations and 6 (six) activities related to each of them.
Resulting file 'tidyset.txt' contains 180 rows (6 x 30) and 68 columns (subject_id, activity + measurements)
